---
title: "NCL and CTFs"
date: "2025-10-23"
toc: true     # Show table of contents? true/false
draft: false   # set to false to show these minutes on the meeting minutes list.

summary: ""   # summary for link previews
weight: 1     # can be used to force positioning relative to other minutes.
type: docs    # Do not modify.

# Buttons for presentations / talk recordings:
# Text: text for the button
# icon: optional icon to sit on the left of the text
#   The RedTeam site uses fontawesome 5 free, you can search for all icons on:
#     https://fontawesome.com/v5/search
#   Some common icons you may want to use:
#     Google Slides Link: "fab fa-google-drive"
#     PDF File:           "fas fa-file-pdf"
#     Video File:         "fas fa-file-video"
#     PPTX File:          "fas fa-file-powerpoint"
# link: link for the button
buttons:
  - text: "Slides"
    icon: "fas fa-link"
    link: "https://shell.lug.mtu.edu/~noah/share/redteam_ncl_2025-10-23.odp"
# Example for a Google Slides link:
#  - text: "Slides"
#    icon: "fab fa-google-drive"
#    link: "https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1C9udMP01k8Wrxyt2N4RSkr501zM7Z5od/edit"

---

## What is NCL?

* NCL is a CTF we compete in! (hopefully you know this by now)
* **Opens tomorrow (Friday) at 1 PM and runs until  Sunday at 9 PM**
* Minimum point threshold:  300 points  for us.

> What’s a CTF?
* CTFs are capture the flag competitions!
* You’re trying to capture flags by solving challenges.
* Flags have a format with numbers and letters, similar to the ICC Vehicle Hackathon format (flag--nums--letters).
* When you solve a challenge, you get the flag.

## About the Competition
* Intended for introductory audiences, mainly  students / people in education .
* There are  3 different tiers  (based on years of experience).
 * Doesn’t change the challenge itself — you’re just placed in a different pool.
 * Most of us will participate in the  Undergrad section .
Big thing: Try to get the most out of the competition, and figure out what you don't know yet

## Difficulty and Rules
* Accommodates different skill levels through  “ramp up” challenges  (easy, medium, hard).
* Easy ones are *really* easy 
*  ChatGPT is allowed  for this competition!
*  NOT allowed to work with other people!!! 
  * That’s the only rule really. Everything else is open-book.
> The “difficulty” label doesn’t always match how easy/hard it actually is — it varies.
> Don’t get discouraged!

## NCL Categories
### OSINT
* Usually the easiest (includes question rules too).
* Basically professional Googling .
*  MY PRESENTATION!! check the slides if you need a refresher :)
### Cryptography
* Easier questions deal with  base number systems  (just Google number decoders).
* Harder ones get really hard , like crypto primitives (steep drop-off).
### Password Cracking
*  Hashcat! 
* Harder questions require a ruleset .
*  Check Tyler’s pres! 
*  Start cracking early!  It takes time (run it in the background).
### Forensics
* A little more approachable with  Linux experience .
*  Steganography, file recovery, etc.
* Hardest questions usually use Volatility  — install that.
* Just have the correct tools ready!
### Log Analysis
* The  grep  category (shout out Noah).
* Sort and sort list.
### Network Traffic Analysis
*  Wireshark!!! 
* Viewing network traffic via packet capture files (`.pcap`).
* Harder challenges use  Scapy  (a lot of outdated docs out there).
  * Can usually solve with  TShark + small shell script .
### Scanning & Reconnaissance
*  Nmap my beloved
* Usually gives you a VM to connect to in the web interface.
### Web App Exploitation
* Tons of tools:  Burp Suite, Gobuster, cURL , etc.
* Sometimes you’re allowed to use automated tools (they’ll let you know).
### Enumeration & Exploitation
* The hardest category
* Even the “easy” challenges are tough.
* Examples:
  * Obfuscated shell scripts (PowerShell, Python) – easy
  * Rust – hardest
* You really gotta know what you’re doing for this one. Not easy to learn on the fly.

## Other Notes
* Accuracy doesn’t really matter unless you’re trying to place
* You get many attempts.
* Any online, non-password-protected resources are fair game.
* You can use our past meeting slides! 

## Importance of NCL
* Justifies our  purpose and mission as an org.
* Helps us get recognition too.
*  Board of Trustees namedropped us.
*  Governor of Michigan sent us a letter congratulating us!
* As students, it gives us  knowledge, helps us see where we’re lacking skills.
  * Curriculum doesn’t always cover what we want to know, so this fills in the gaps.
