---
title: "RedTeam IDs"
date: "2025-09-25"
toc: true     # Show table of contents? true/false
draft: false   # set to false to show these minutes on the meeting minutes list.

summary: ""   # summary for link previews
weight: 1     # can be used to force positioning relative to other minutes.
type: docs    # Do not modify.

# Buttons for presentations / talk recordings:
# Text: text for the button
# icon: optional icon to sit on the left of the text
#   The RedTeam site uses fontawesome 5 free, you can search for all icons on:
#     https://fontawesome.com/v5/search
#   Some common icons you may want to use:
#     Google Slides Link: "fab fa-google-drive"
#     PDF File:           "fas fa-file-pdf"
#     Video File:         "fas fa-file-video"
#     PPTX File:          "fas fa-file-powerpoint"
# link: link for the button
buttons:
  - text: "Slides"
    icon: "fas fa-link"
    link: "https://shell.lug.mtu.edu/~noah/share/redteam_ids.odp"
# Example for a Google Slides link:
#  - text: "Slides"
#    icon: "fab fa-google-drive"
#    link: "https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1C9udMP01k8Wrxyt2N4RSkr501zM7Z5od/edit"

---

## TODAY'S TOPIC  — Red Team IDs / MIFARE Polyglot Cards !
  - To request: send name + image; if you sent it in time, printed IDs are ready for pickup.  
  - Last year: printed on inkjet labels before we had a card printer.. improvements made!

### Background Info...
- For the RedTeam IDs → using proxmark for writing data to cards.
- Two main chip vendors: HID and NXP (high-freq vs low-freq).
- Our Husky cards use NFC / MIFARE Classic

### Security Stuff...
- MIFARE Classic is insecure.  VERY Poor encryption. 
  - Uses the proprietary Crypto1 cypher (widely analyzed/pwned since ~2008).  Very bad.
  - Still commonly used in access control despite vulnerabilities.  
- Each card has a factory UID/serial number; this is readable and supposed to be changed.. but they don't 
- Cards use *sectors* and *keys* (Key A / Key B) and contain access bits and manufacturer data.
- Readers often convert UID to an upstream value (e.g., a Wiegand code) that the door controller uses to grant access.

### IMPORTANT TO NOTE...
- We disclosed findings to IT; they were not concerned, but do not hand out cards or impersonate others.  
- Stay within Tech/IT policy boundaries and avoid actions that would get the club in trouble. (Covering our asses.)

### Polyglot / Multi-format Cards
- A polyglot (2-in-1) card can present multiple formats (e.g., our Husky format + another).  
- Some readers (e.g., Schlage/Allegion) support multi-card types — nice for the organization - also nice for us... we can do a downgrade attack (we don't need to, we already have the worst type).
- readers try sector 15 as well, not sure why
- move sector 1 to sector 15→ tada!

### Tools 
- Mentioned tools: MIFARE Classic Tool (Android), Proxmark3, Flipper Zero, ChameleonUltra.  
 - Buy the proxmark3 off of alibaba.
- Equipment is available to check out through RedTeam (return like library items).

### Audience Time!!
- Take out your husky cards and flip it! (back numbers → facility code & card number are printed/readable).  
- Our card numbers are straight up printed , if you read someones' card number you could hypothetically make a copy of their card (don't do this)

### Other Topics / Events
- **Car Hackathon (Yu Cai):** embedded car hackathon using Raspberry Pis → ~2 days, team auto-balancing, $500/$400/$300 rewards for 1st/2nd/3rd places! sign-up using the QR in presentation.  
- More info [here](https://ctf.cs.mtu.edu/), and you can sign up [here](https://forms.gle/1uLSk4VJLXnAmWRBA)!
